name$ text
constructs$ cauldron$ A cauldron is a round metal pot used for cooking. They were an essential item for most rich and poor households but fell out of use in favour of more advanced cooking equipment.
constructs$ hearth$ A hearth is where a fire is typically kept in a medieval household for cooking and heating. They were usually using a horizontal hearthstone and varying features such as a fireplace, oven, smoke hood or chimney. 
constructs$ knife$ Knives even today come in multiple forms and are commonly found in excavations. In the medieval period, they were used for food preparation, making pots, carving shoes, etc.
constructs$ larder$ A larder is a cool room, used for storing food before use. It was used to store bread, pastries, butter, milk or meats. Larders were commonplace in households before refrigeration took its place.
constructs$ mortar and pestle$ A mortar and pestle was a key part of every pharmacist's and apothecary’s equipment. They were used to pound and mash medical plants and herbs and grind ingredients used in medical treatments.
constructs$ sword$ The word sword comes from the Old English word sweord which means “to wound” or  “to cut”. Swords were typically for wealthy men of high status and armoured knights.
folklore$ witch$ From 1484 until around 1750 roughly 200,000 innocent people were accused of practising witchcraft and subjected to torcher, hanging or burning. They were believed to summon evil spirits to do harm to other people, this was found to be a convincing explanation to many people at the time after some unexpected misfortune such as a death of a child or bad harvest making witch hunting an obsession in some parts. The accused were often poor elderly women and social outcasts who had an unfortunate “witch-like” appearance.
invertebrates$ cricket$ There are 23 species of crickets in the UK many of which are found in the woodlands where their colour allows them to blend in. Some crickets can jump 20 times their body length although they normally prefer to walk away from threats.
invertebrates$ hornet$ With a fearsome appearance and often being compared to the common wasp, this insect is not well-liked, but it is actually it is less aggressive and unlikely to sting if left alone. It lives in woods and similarly to the common wasp, it is an important pollinator and predator of invertebrates that feed off of plants and crops.
mammal$ brown rat$ The brown rat is an incredibly adaptable animal that can be found all over Britain in any habitat as long as there is shelter and food. They are omnivores and will eat almost anything such as fruit, insects, egg, small animals and human food waste.
mammal$ common shrew$ Shrews live active lives, eating various invertebrates including earthworms and spiders every 2-3 hours to survive. They are territorial and aggressive, sometimes heard fighting in high-pitched squicks more noticeable in summer.
mammal$ european hedgehog$ Famous for its spiny back the hedgehog is well-liked but gardeners for preying on garden pests. When they feel threatened they curl up into a ball using the muscles in their back to raise their spines.
mammal$ field vole$ Field voles are very common in grasslands, heathlands and moorlands as they are not great climbers. They prefer to move along the ground in a network of runs that lead to their burrows. Their diet includes seeds, roots and leaves.
mammal$ red fox$ Foxes are nocturnal animals with an omnivorous diet of small mammals, birds, frogs and various fruits. Foxes that live in towns and cities may even scavenge for scraps. They live in a burrow system called an “earth” and scent-mark their territories using urine, creating a very strong and recognisable odour.
mammal$ red squirrel$ Native to the UK, red squirrels are a lot rarer than the invasive grey squirrel due to being outcompeted and vulnerable to squirrel pox from the latter. Red squirrels make a nest in a canopy made from twigs, leaves and bark called a drey.
mammal$ mole$ Moles are rarely seen since they often spend their entire lives underground hunting for earthworms and crop-eating grubs. By digging the earth with their shovel-like claws, moles aerate the earth making the soil more healthy. Their tunnels also improve soil drainage preventing puddles and flooding.
mammal$ weasel$ Weasels are the UK’s smallest carnivore at 17-22cm. Their size, agility and flexibility allows them to enter burrows and snow tunnels to make short work of mice and voles.
mammal$ wood mouse$ Sometimes called the long-tailed field mouse, the wood mouse is one of the most widespread rodents in Britain. They will store berries and seeds throughout autumn in underground burrows or sometimes old bird's nests.
plants$ bramble$ A bramble or “blackberry” is a thorny shrub from the rose family that provides food and shelter for various animals such as rodents and birds. It grows in various habits including woodlands, gardens and roadsides. It will have juicy black fruits through autumn, these can be picked and eaten, just remember to take what you need and leave some for wildlife.
plants$ plantain$ Considered a weed for growing in any location where there is soil such as lawns, rough grassland and roadsides, this wide range of inhabitable habitats makes the plant very common. It is very effective at treating nettle stings and bug bites/stings.
